CI tutorial (#277)
conan-io/conan-io.github.io: _posts/2024-12-05-New Continuous Integration Tutorial.markdown

The package pipeline builds this new version for multiple different configurations (for this example we use Release and Debug configurations for easier reproduction, but in real scenarios it could be Windows and Linux), uploading those configurations to the "package" repository. This way, only if all the different configurations are built correctly can the changes be considered valid. While the "packages pipeline" is running the new binaries will be uploaded to the "packages" repository:

<p class="centered">
    <img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/post_images/2024-12-05/packages_pipeline_prepromotion.png" alt="Repositories before promoting the packages"/>
</p>

And when the different configurations are built correctly, they can be "promoted", that is, copied from the "packages" repository to the "products" repository, to make them available to the following "products pipeline":

<p class="centered">
    <img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/post_images/2024-12-05/packages_pipeline_postpromotion.png" alt="Repositories after promoting the packages"/>
</p>

> One important aspect of the pipeline is consistency and traceability. If the different configurations are built in different computers, like different Windows and Linux build agents, the builds can happen at different times. If there are other concurrent processes in CI, and for example some other job uploads a new ``mathlib/1.1`` new version, it could be possible that the ``ai/1.1`` binary for the Windows configuration is built with ``mathlib/1.0`` and the ``ai/1.1`` binary for the Linux configurations is built with the newer ``mathlib/1.1``. To avoid this, Conan lockfiles can be used to guarantee the same set of dependencies everywhere and in different time steps, even if new versions of dependencies are later uploaded. Lockfiles provide reproducibility of dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One important aspect of the pipeline is consistency and traceability. If the different configurations are built in different computers, like different Windows and Linux build agents, the builds can happen at different times. If there are other concurrent processes in CI, and for example some other job uploads a new ``mathlib/1.1`` version, it could be possible that the ``ai/1.1`` binary for the Windows configuration is built with ``mathlib/1.0`` and the ``ai/1.1`` binary for the Linux configurations is built with the newer ``mathlib/1.1``. To avoid this, Conan lockfiles can be used to guarantee the same set of dependencies everywhere and in different time steps, even if new versions of dependencies are later uploaded. Lockfiles provide reproducibility of dependencies.
```

<p class="centered">
    <img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/post_images/2024-12-05/products_pipeline_final.png" alt="Final state of all packages in the develop repository after product integration"/>
</p>

Note that the Conan binary model is not breaking the previous release. The ``game/1.0`` package now contains 2 different binaries, one binary built against the previous ``ai/1.0`` version, that can still be used, tested, deployed to customers, etc, and a new binary built against the new ``ai/1.1`` binary that will incorporate the latest changes from that package.

It is also important to note that ``game`` didn't change its version. This is still a development stage, and the ``game/1.0`` package ties its version to its source code. The source code of ``game/1.0`` package didn’t change at all, so it didn’t have to bump the version. The version of the ``game/1.0`` package wouldn’t be necessarily correlated to the final release of the whole product; that could get a different release name and versioning scheme.

## Conclusions and future work

> This blog post isn’t a full explanation of the CI, it is just a peek preview of its contents. The full CI tutorial with all the detailed explanations, exercises, and code is already live at <URL>, go and try it! As always, feedback is very welcome, if there are any questions or issues with the tutorial, please let us know opening a ticket in [the Conan Github repository](https://github.com/conan-io/conan/issues)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This blog post isn’t a full explanation of the CI, it is just a peek preview of its contents. The full CI tutorial with all the detailed explanations, exercises, and code is already live at [CI Tutorial section in the Conan docs](https://docs.conan.io/2/ci_tutorial/tutorial.html), go and try it! As always, feedback is very welcome, if there are any questions or issues with the tutorial, please let us know opening a ticket in [the Conan Github repository](https://github.com/conan-io/conan/issues)
```
